Mutational_Signature	Proposed_etiology	Details	
S1	Deamination of 5-methylcytosine	An endogenous mutational process initiated by spontaneous or enzymatica deamination of 5-mehylcytosine to thymine which generates G:T mistaches in double strand DNA. Failure to detect and remove these mistaches prior to DNA replication results in fixation of the T substitution for C.	
S2	APOBEC activity	"Attributed to activity of the AID/ APOBEC family of cytidine deaminases on the basis of similarities in the sequence context of cytosine mutations caused by APOBEC enzymes in experimental systems. APOBEC3A is probably reponsible for most mutation in human cancer, although APOBEC3B may also contribute (these differ in the sequence context two bases 5'  to the mutated cytosine, see 1,536 mutation classification signature extraction). Signature SBS2 mutations may be genersted directly by DNA replication across uracil or by error prone polymerases replicating across abasic sites generated by base excision repair remobal of uracil."	 
S3	Defective HR;  INDEL driven	Defective homologous recombination-based DNA damage repair which manifests predominantly as small indels and genome rearrangements due to abnormal double strand break repair but also in the form of this base substitution signature.	
S4	Tobacco smoking	"Associated with tobacco smoking. Its profile is similar to the mutational spectrum observed in experimental systems exposed to tobacco carcinogens such as benzo[a]pyrene. Signature 4 is, therefore, likely due to direct DNA damage by tobacco smoke mutagens."	
S5	Unknown	Unknown. Signature SBS5 mutational burden is enriched in bladder cancer samples with ERCC5 mutations. The rate of signature SBS5 can be elevated due to tobacco somoking in many cancer types.	
S6	Defective DNA mismatch repair	Signature SBS6 is associated with defective DNA mismatch repair and is found in microsatellite unstable tumours.	
S7	Ultraviplet light exposure	"Signature SBS7 are found in cancers of the skin from sun exposed areas, therefore, these are likely to be due to exposure to ultraviolet light. Signature SBS 7 may possibly be the consequence of just one of the two major known UV photoproducts, cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers or 6-4 photoproducts, although there is no evidence for this hypothesis and it is unclear which of these photoproducts may be responsible."	
S8	Unknown	Unknown.	
S9	Polymerase eta activity	Attributed to mutations induced durign replication by polymerase eta across lesions induced by activation induced cytidine deaminase as part of somatic hypermutation.	
S10	Polymerase epsilon mutation	Polymerase epsilon exonuclease domain mutations.	
S11	Temozolomide treatment	Signature SBS11 exhibits a mutational pattern resembling that of alkylating agents. Patient histories indicate an association between previous treatment with the alkylating agent temozolomide and Signature SBS11 mutations.	
S12	Unknown	Unknown.	
S13	APOBEC activity	"Attributed to activity of the AID/ APOBEC family of cytidine deaminases on the basis of similarities in the sequence context of cytosine mutations caused by APOBEC enzymes in experimental systems. APOBEC3A is probably reponsible for most mutation in human cancer, although APOBEC3B may also contribute (these differ in the sequence context two bases 5'  to the mutated cytosine, see 1,536 mutation classification signature extraction). Signature SBS2 mutations may be genersted directly by DNA replication across uracil or by error prone polymerases replicating across abasic sites generated by base excision repair remobal of uracil."	
S14	Defective DNA mismatch repair and Polymerase ? mutation	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
S15	Defective DNA mismatch repair; INDEL driven	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
S16	Unknown	Unknown.	
S17	Unknown	Unknown.	
S18	Reactive oxygen species	Damage by reactive oxygen species.	
S19	Unknown	Unknown.	
S20	Unknown	Unknown.	
S21	Defective	DNA mismatch repair deficiency.	
S22	Aristolochic acid exposure	Aristolochic acid exposure. Found in cancer samples with known exposures to aristolochic acid and the pattern of mutations exhibited by the signature is consistent with that observed in experimental systems of aristolochic acid exposure.	
S23	Unknown	Unknown.	
S24	Aflatoxin exposure	Aflatoxin exposure. Signature SBS24 has been found in cancer samples with known exposures to aflatoxin and the pattern of mutations exhibited by the signature is consistent with that observed in experimental systems exposed to alatoxin.	
S25	Unknown	"Unknown. However, some Hodgkin's cell line samples in which the signature has been found were from patients exposed to chemotherapy."	
S26	Defective DNA mismatch repair	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
S27	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
S28	Unknown	Unknown	
S29	Tobacco chewing	SBS29 has been found in cancer samples from indivisuals with a tobacco chewing habit.	
S30	Deficiency in base excision repair	"Due to deficiency in base excision repair and more specifically, to inactivating mutations in NTHL1."	
S31	Platinum durgs.	Prior chemotherapy treatment with platinum durgs.	
S32	Treatment with azathioprine	Prior treatment with azathioprine to induce immunosuppression.	
S33	Unknown	Unknown	
S34	Unknown	Unknown	
S35	Platinum treatment	Prior chemotherapy treatment with playinum durgs.	
S36	Defective base excision repair; MUTYH mutation	"Defective base excision repair, including DNA damage due to reactive oxygen species, due to biallelic germline or somatic MUTYH mutations."	
S37	Predominant in Prostate	Unknown	
S38	Indirect effect of ultraviolet light	Unknown. Found only in ultraviolet light associated melanomas suggesting a potential indirect damage from UV-light.\	
S39	Unknown	Unknown	
S40	Predominant in Kidney	Unknown	
S41	Unknown	Unknown	
S42	Occupational exposure to haloalkanes.	Occupational exposure to haloalkanes.	
S43	Unknown	Unknown. Possible sequencing artefact.	
S44	Defective mismatch repair	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
S45	8-oxo-guanine	Likely artefact due to 8-oxo-guanine introduced during sequencing.	
S46	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
S47	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
S48	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
S49	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
S50	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
S51	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
S52	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
S53	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
S54	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. Potential contamination with germline variants.	
S55	Ultraviplet light exposure	Ultraviplet light exposure	
S56	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
S57	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
S58	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
S59	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
S60	Artifact Mode	Known sequencing artefact.	
