Mutational_Signature	Proposed_etiology	Details	
SBS1	Deamination of 5-methylcytosine	An endogenous mutational process initiated by spontaneous or enzymatica deamination of 5-mehylcytosine to thymine which generates G:T mistaches in double strand DNA. Failure to detect and remove these mistaches prior to DNA replication results in fixation of the T substitution for C.	
SBS2	APOBEC activity	"Attributed to activity of the AID/ APOBEC family of cytidine deaminases on the basis of similarities in the sequence context of cytosine mutations caused by APOBEC enzymes in experimental systems. APOBEC3A is probably reponsible for most mutation in human cancer, although APOBEC3B may also contribute (these differ in the sequence context two bases 5'  to the mutated cytosine, see 1,536 mutation classification signature extraction). Signature SBS2 mutations may be genersted directly by DNA replication across uracil or by error prone polymerases replicating across abasic sites generated by base excision repair remobal of uracil."	 
SBS3	Defective HR;  INDEL driven	Defective homologous recombination-based DNA damage repair which manifests predominantly as small indels and genome rearrangements due to abnormal double strand break repair but also in the form of this base substitution signature.	
SBS4	Tobacco smoking	"Associated with tobacco smoking. Its profile is similar to the mutational spectrum observed in experimental systems exposed to tobacco carcinogens such as benzo[a]pyrene. Signature 4 is, therefore, likely due to direct DNA damage by tobacco smoke mutagens."	
SBS5	Unknown	Unknown. Signature SBS5 mutational burden is enriched in bladder cancer samples with ERCC5 mutations. The rate of signature SBS5 can be elevated due to tobacco somoking in many cancer types.	
SBS6	Defective DNA mismatch repair	Signature SBS6 is associated with defective DNA mismatch repair and is found in microsatellite unstable tumours.	
SBS7	Ultraviplet light exposure	"Signature SBS7 are found in cancers of the skin from sun exposed areas, therefore, these are likely to be due to exposure to ultraviolet light. Signature SBS 7 may possibly be the consequence of just one of the two major known UV photoproducts, cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers or 6-4 photoproducts, although there is no evidence for this hypothesis and it is unclear which of these photoproducts may be responsible."	
SBS8	Unknown	Unknown.	
SBS9	Polymerase eta activity	Attributed to mutations induced durign replication by polymerase eta across lesions induced by activation induced cytidine deaminase as part of somatic hypermutation.	
SBS10	Polymerase epsilon mutation	Polymerase epsilon exonuclease domain mutations.	
SBS11	Temozolomide treatment	Signature SBS11 exhibits a mutational pattern resembling that of alkylating agents. Patient histories indicate an association between previous treatment with the alkylating agent temozolomide and Signature SBS11 mutations.	
SBS12	Unknown	Unknown.	
SBS13	APOBEC activity	"Attributed to activity of the AID/ APOBEC family of cytidine deaminases on the basis of similarities in the sequence context of cytosine mutations caused by APOBEC enzymes in experimental systems. APOBEC3A is probably reponsible for most mutation in human cancer, although APOBEC3B may also contribute (these differ in the sequence context two bases 5'  to the mutated cytosine, see 1,536 mutation classification signature extraction). Signature SBS2 mutations may be genersted directly by DNA replication across uracil or by error prone polymerases replicating across abasic sites generated by base excision repair remobal of uracil."	
SBS14	Defective DNA mismatch repair and Polymerase ? mutation	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
SBS15	Defective DNA mismatch repair; INDEL driven	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
SBS16	Unknown	Unknown.	
SBS17	Unknown	Unknown.	
SBS18	Reactive oxygen species	Damage by reactive oxygen species.	
SBS19	Unknown	Unknown.	
SBS20	Unknown	Unknown.	
SBS21	Defective	DNA mismatch repair deficiency.	
SBS22	Aristolochic acid exposure	Aristolochic acid exposure. Found in cancer samples with known exposures to aristolochic acid and the pattern of mutations exhibited by the signature is consistent with that observed in experimental systems of aristolochic acid exposure.	
SBS23	Unknown	Unknown.	
SBS24	Aflatoxin exposure	Aflatoxin exposure. Signature SBS24 has been found in cancer samples with known exposures to aflatoxin and the pattern of mutations exhibited by the signature is consistent with that observed in experimental systems exposed to alatoxin.	
SBS25	Unknown	"Unknown. However, some Hodgkin's cell line samples in which the signature has been found were from patients exposed to chemotherapy."	
SBS26	Defective DNA mismatch repair	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
SBS27	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
SBS28	Unknown	Unknown	
SBS29	Tobacco chewing	SBS29 has been found in cancer samples from indivisuals with a tobacco chewing habit.	
SBS30	Deficiency in base excision repair	"Due to deficiency in base excision repair and more specifically, to inactivating mutations in NTHL1."	
SBS31	Platinum durgs.	Prior chemotherapy treatment with platinum durgs.	
SBS32	Treatment with azathioprine	Prior treatment with azathioprine to induce immunosuppression.	
SBS33	Unknown	Unknown	
SBS34	Unknown	Unknown	
SBS35	Platinum treatment	Prior chemotherapy treatment with playinum durgs.	
SBS36	Defective base excision repair; MUTYH mutation	"Defective base excision repair, including DNA damage due to reactive oxygen species, due to biallelic germline or somatic MUTYH mutations."	
SBS37	Predominant in Prostate	Unknown	
SBS38	Indirect effect of ultraviolet light	Unknown. Found only in ultraviolet light associated melanomas suggesting a potential indirect damage from UV-light.\	
SBS39	Unknown	Unknown	
SBS40	Predominant in Kidney	Unknown	
SBS41	Unknown	Unknown	
SBS42	Occupational exposure to haloalkanes.	Occupational exposure to haloalkanes.	
SBS43	Unknown	Unknown. Possible sequencing artefact.	
SBS44	Defective mismatch repair	Defective DNA mismatch repair.	
SBS45	8-oxo-guanine	Likely artefact due to 8-oxo-guanine introduced during sequencing.	
SBS46	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
SBS47	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
SBS48	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
SBS49	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
SBS50	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
SBS51	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
SBS52	Possible sequencing artefact.	Possible sequencing artefact.	
SBS53	Likely sequencing artefact.	Likely sequencing artefact.	
SBS54	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. Potential contamination with germline variants.	
SBS55	Ultraviplet light exposure	Ultraviplet light exposure	
SBS56	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
SBS57	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
SBS58	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
SBS59	Potential sequencing artefact. 	Potential sequencing artefact. 	
SBS60	Artifact Mode	Known sequencing artefact.	
